All right.
Let's make sure that when we press on the W, A, s and D keys on our keyboard, we apply some movement
or velocity to this ball right here.
The first thing you have to do is figure out how we're going to detect whenever a user presses a key
on their keyboard.
Well, to be honest, there's not really a lot of magic to this.
We're going to set up an event listener on our documents.
That means whenever a user presses any key on their keyboard, anywhere on our application, we'll be
able to detect that key press.
So underneath my ball, I'm going to add in a document, not add event listener.
Are we going to listen for an event called Key Down?
As you can probably guess, the key down event is going to be triggered anytime the user presses down
on a key on the keyboard.
So then received that event objects.
I'm going to do a console log.
Of the event, because we're going to see something really interesting in there.
Really quickly.
It's going to save this.
Look back over refresh and then I'm going to click anywhere on the screen and see my actual application.
And then just press a key.
First, start off by pressing the key W.
If I then expand this event object, we're going to see a couple of different interesting properties.
So the one that is probably most relevant right there says Key.
So that tells us the key, though, is just pressed by the user.
There's also a key code property as well.
Traditionally, we use the key code property to decide exactly what character the user just typed on
as opposed to the key property.
Each different key on your keyboard has a different code.
So we can look up all these different codes to decide exactly what key was just pressed and then impart
some appropriate velocity on the ball in the appropriate direction.
So I can also do an A..
Whoops, I need to select the actual at first.
There's my A.
That gives me a key code of sixty five.
I can do a down person.
S in this case, that represents the ball going down eighty three and then a D is a key code of 68.
Now we don't really have to just click and press these different keys all day and look up the key code
to figure out which key triggers, which key code we can.
Let's do a Google search.
We can look up JavaScript he code.
One of the first results here is key code dot info.
This is a really great little site to figure out exactly what the key codes are for each key press.
So if I do a W, they'll tell me, hey, that's eighty seven left.
Sixty five down.
Eighty three.
Right.
Is sixty eight.
So back inside of my editor, I'm gonna remove the console log.
And I'm going to instead set up a couple of statements, so I'll say if event up key code equals and
it was the first thing we should do.
Let's do up, which is a W..
So if a user has a key code of eighty seven, that means they want to go up.
The inside of here, I'll say console dialogue.
Move all up and then I can repeat that same process for the other keys, so I'll duplicate that instatement
down.
Once, twice, three times.
So that's up.
I'll make this one a move to the right, down and left.
Now we can just update the key codes for those appropriate directions.
So to move the ball, right.
I want to find my D key so that 68.
I'll update the eighty right there is 68 going down would be 83.
And going left would be 65.
So let's save this.
Go back over to my application or refresh, and I can once again click inside of my application frame
and then I'll go up.
Right down and left, and I can definitely see that I'm doing the appropriate console logs for each
of those different directions.
So this is definitely good.
Looks like we have a good start here.
So quick pause right here.
We'll come back the next video and we're going to figure out exactly how we can take these directions
and actually translate them to adding some movement to our ball right there.
So another quick pause.
I'll see you in just a minute.